(1) I recommend a different term than urbanization, it usually carries negative connotations. It reads as though you mean he invests into social programs? Tap me if this is correct and I will correct the notes. ==Yeah i didn't know which word to use here, sometimes you just gotta write! will use another word== Perfect, I figured it was something like that, glad to have the clarity and notes to confirm this for later on incase of any possible confusion :3 ==x3==

(2) while it emphasizes the depravity of the character, it might be better to make the language more specific when committing it to the story. Like, I imagine him jerking off at a park waiting for a late night jogger, somewhere he can target a specific audience/group of people (men/people coming home from work or at the park at night alr being a grown person activity). Maybe when we bring up his past in the VN, we can show images of him doing these actions so there's less room for the audience to run while (IE the priest peaking in on people and him getting caught in public being VN CGs). I think it would also emphasize his depravity well if we associated art with the acts instead of only telling the audience of this. ==same case here, i need to finish the writing so i wrote what quickly came to mind. I'll detail the rumours in the outline thanks to remind me== :3 Do you like the idea of each rumor coming with an art piece? ==I do for freaky people eheh, we'll have to ask moké though he's the one doing the illustrations== Sounds good :3 I think putting a pin on art emphasis for after we get a full story might be ideal. ==I have to download a pin image for the outline board lol== LOL

(3) Linger on this narratively, you can use it to pose a mystery that can reflect in the character. Building a sense of unease in the audience to get them to ask questions: why is Joseph going _so far_ to investigate Cesare? How familiar are we with _why_ Joseph's obsession manifests in such ways? Should the audience still be left in the dark on some details of Joseph's inner machinations so we can also uncover those as the story unfolds? You did well to set up a ,Chekov's gun in the undeleted photo of Cesare. ==wait i need to see what it refers to, hmm could you clarify what you thought could be the reason about joseph's obsession== I'm not sure at all, that's moreso what I meant to be emphasizing here. There's this feeling that we as the audience are meant to wonder why Joseph is leading down this line obsession, atleast in this initial draft. You do want to show Cesare being a good guy potentially now after we discussed more stuff in the outline. ==do you mean something like J has met cesare before or he is a relative?== More like Joseph's obsession has less to do with Cesare specifically and more to do with something Joseph is dealing with outside of Cesare ==OOOOH GOT it. I think C reminds J of his groomer, something he craved to reconnect with== That's rly good insight, keep that in mind but dont tell the audience yet. Some information would be better told later on, as I'm sure you're already planning :3 ==Sure! some part in the outline aren' t meant to be written but more for the people who works on the project to know why each character does an action. Should i find a code for stuff that isn't meant to be told yet== I dont think we need to do that just yet, we are still just establishing the flow and how it feels to work together in general, I think we'll get a natural feel for what is implied and what is explicit as time goes on, with only moments of needed clarity coming less often as I understand your process more :3 ==sure! i don't intend to have a larger team for now because it's easier to work with. let's not complicate it at this scale im gonna read the rest== sound perfect, and right on, also its gonna be fun looking back at these notes someday when its all done :3

(4) Dont forget the Absolution! It is required at the end of a confessional, even if it ends early. I have provided a french version/modern translation (source in french: https://liturgie.catholique.fr/lexique/absolution/). The currently accepted prayer of absolution is this in english, it will be hard to find the older versions but possible if necessary:

 "_God, the Father of mercies,_

_through the death and resurrection of his Son_

_has reconciled the world to himself_

_and **poured out the Holy Spirit (formerly “sent the Holy Spirit among us”)** for the forgiveness of sins;_

_through the ministry of the Church_

_may God **grant (formerly “give”)** you pardon and peace._

_And I absolve you from your sins_

_in the Name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit._"

(source: https://www.sjs.edu/blog/upcoming-changes-to-the-prayer-of-absolution)

	(4.5) I think the repetition of the prayer of absolution could compliment the themes of your story overall. Also ball sweat should drip onto Joseph :3?
==Sure i don't mind, i didn't really develop those parts anyway lol, I approve your idea== Perfect!! And I guess that's what I'm here for right? Combing over your main body of text and looking for places we can plug texture? ==yeah! for me you are the editor specialised in world building. you are what i was looking for and I like your insights. Moké is nice but he hasn't read a lot of vn nor litterature so i have trouble understanding his insight sometimes lol== I totally understand :3 One of my biggest things is going through things like movies, games, comics, etc and parsing through the story and learning about things and all that stuff. This kinda auxiliary/supplemental role is something I've always thought I'd love to do for someone so I'm excited to keep working on this :3 ==:3 I like to do that too, like for example Higurashi, this one has a crazy world building for its story and mystery LMAO the reboot is lame== I have seen all of Higurashi and it's reboots LOL, I find the reboot less interesting than the original but the reboot is based off the less ran routes of the original Visual novel. ==yeah also tried to justify umineko mythology and it doesn't really work anyway let's continue eheh== hehehe >:3 also on topic on the notes tho i have been watching neon ==evangelion? ok lol== << yes genesis finally so I can see how much gnostic ideology I can see beforehand. Gnostic tradition is something im super interested in as the high scholarly version of christian mythos that tries to make sense of the parts not included in the baby (the sea scrolls) and other deeper christian mythological stuff. ==oh nice! I have watched evangelion in its entirety but the movies, i like to hate it sometimes lol i have my issues with it but I really love it in terms of christian imagery== The thing that intrigues me is that it's heavily based on this older schism of Christianity and it follows a lot of the old mythos of christian stuff just with mecha involved lol, it is so chockfull of direct references they have gnostic charts in the intro and i felt like a mega nerd when i got excited seeing a chart with yaldaboeth on it LMFAO ==lmfaooo, maybe we could use gnostic themes too for the vns, it'd do well for the imagery== I think you would really enjoy the core of gnostic tradition as someone who seems religious critical, ==(true) i spent my childhood criticizing islam and christianity is very similar to islam== the whole belief stems off the idea that the christian god being basically a flawed, evil thing that created a flawed universe unlike it's siblings that we exist in current (The demiurge)==my god i love it, the comic beings i wrote are basically that== we all gotta study gnostic belief to make cooler stories at some point >:3 also u are right that islam and christianity are very similar, but ppl in the west have a hard time conceptualizing that they share more than they dont between the religions given the origin==yeah in high school i was shocked to learn that one of my friend didn't know that islam is an updated version of judaism and christianity with a new messiah. for me it was obvious. the qur'an acknowledges the old texts but says it's mahomet is the ultimate prophet in the end==. Also, the whole evil/flawed god creating a flawed world is definitely the basis for why angels are killing humanity in evangelion so cruelly, i dont know like actually yet im on episode 6 but like knowing gnosticism it is like....one to one what they said would happen, that angels would come to earth and destroy shit like god's private military ==tbh evangelion had been really confusing to me mostly at the end the series so maybe studying gnosticsm will help me understand better== unironically i have heard that to be true, if ur confused by the ending looking into gnostic belief is supposed to make it make more sense, since its so heavily based on it ==great! we should move on lmao==

(5) The term sinner used in this way feels a bit disjointed, I think we could use terms like heathen and heathenry, among other more specific language when we start implementation process. Leaving note for reminder.
	(5.5) Perhaps a more intense word like sodomite might work here, double edged sword that cuts them both but in a way that's sexually charged in a setting accurate way.

==I agree with what you're saying, another case of having to drop the pen on the paper to continue lol, i couldn't find the word anymore== WE'll replace them all eventually :3 I want to think of word suggestions as I go if I feel particularly strong about it, like using the term sodomite ==sure! we should think about the content of story before the form! that's what the outline is for eheh==

(6) I have specific thoughts about what images should be displayed here during this moment. I suggest _against_ revealing Joseph's _first_ naked images of Cesare if this is intended to be the moment Chekov's gun is fired. I think you can create more drama by revealing to Cesare that Joseph's psychosexual obsession has been going on for longer than their first direct interaction. There is an opportunity for providing Joseph the chance to take some sneaky pictures of Cesare's undercarriage during the confessional, creating an immediate confirmation that Joseph saw Cesare's genitals as he intended, thus saving your narrative bullet for later in the story for when Cesare gets more involved with Joseph's life. ==oooooh unrealiable narrator i love it i really love your idea. we give the impression that j is a innocent man that just fell into the pit but the reader realises that he fell into the pit sooner and harder than we thought and j is in denial about it. like during the narration of the confessionals scene, the narrator doesn't mention that J took pics of Cesare genitals. but then C reveals that those photos exist and reveals that Joseph's narration is unreliable. Even better, the incipit could imply that C is the one spying on J but actually it was J who was spying on C in the incipit (the incipit was meant to hook the reader and foreshadow that cesare has a mutual obsession with Joseph)==

(7) Cesare now has an established moment learning where Joseph lives. I havent seen the outline yet, but is this being set up as an opportunity for Cesare to peep on Joseph in his home? This could lead to a good opportunity in the future.

(8) Opportunity to be cheeky, don't specify that Cesare hasnt seen Joseph if you really mean it. If you leave out a detail, you could sneakily imply Cesare has been peeping/stalking Joseph in return to his original obsession considering Joseph gave Cesare an impassioned "No!". Flipping the dynamic that started the story by making Joseph the object of Cesare's obsession, complimenting the dark mirror analogy.